In this lesson, you will learn how to use breakpoints.
The first thing I want you to do is open a new project.
You're going to start from your spring boot to boot camp resources.
You will go to Appendix A and you're going to open the breakpoints folder.
This folder is going to contain only one Java file and if for some reason it shows you errors, you
might have a message on top that says Set up JDK or something.
Just keep clicking.
Okay.
Choose whatever Java distribution you have installed and eventually you should be rid of all these errors
and have to run buttons over here.
If you right click on the run button, it gives you the option to run and debug.
Before we choose to debug our app, we're going to add a breakpoint and I'm also going to add a print
statement to right over here.
That's out and here.
We're just going to print the receipt.
Oh.
All right.
Let's add another breakpoint right here and run the application and debug mode.
The first thing I want to address is the continue button.
Continue just goes from one breakpoint to the next.
And here I can monitor the state of my variables.
So right now we just ran the line of code.
String receipt is equal to get receipts and at this point in our runtime receipt equals the following
value.
The total is $5.
And if I press continue again because there are no more breakpoints that follow, the program will terminate
and it will effectively print your message.
Och, we're not done just yet.
Let us re run our application and debug mode.
Okay.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to step inside of get a receipt.
I want to see exactly what's happening inside of this function.
How are we getting back at this return value?
So I will use the button called step into.
And again, here we can monitor the state of our variables, the parameters, price one and price to
equal 2.5.
You can also see this on the side.
If I keep stepping inside the function.
Here we see the message equals a string value.
The total is a dollar sign.
And now if I press step inside again, it's going to step into the sum function.
It steps into the sum function.
The parameter is equal to 2.5 and 2.5 respectively.
If we keep stepping inside and go again here, we can see the value that was returned back from the
sum function is five, so the total now equals five.
And the value that this function is going to return is the string message, plus whatever total we just
evaluated.
All right.
Keep stepping into.
Now the receipt equals the string that was returned.
The total is $5.
And then here I can just press continue and terminate execution.
There's only one last thing I want to show you.
We run the application in debug mode.
If you're getting annoyed, I do apologize.
But this is important.
Again, let's step inside of.
Get your receipt.
Now.
Let's keep going.
Okay.
Now, I want to keep stepping inside of this function, but I don't want to step inside of some.
How can I avoid this?
If I press step into, it's going to go inside of some and assume this function was like millions of
lines long.
This would get annoying real quick, but if I were to press continue, it would skip everything and
just go to the next breakpoint.
So clearly that's not what we want to do.
Let's rerun our application and debug mode.
Oh yeah.
You can rerun your app in debug mode by just pressing the following button.
Should be very handy.
So let's go back.
And now I can keep stepping inside of my function, but I can step over this line and get a receipt
by pressing the step over button.
And having stepped over this function, I can keep stepping into.
It returns a receipt and then that receipt is being printed.
All right.
There is one last thing I want to show you.
I promise I'll run the application and debug mode.
You can also enable and disable your breakpoints.
So here, if I mute the breakpoints and press next, it's just going to skip them and run the app as
normal.
You can also view the breakpoints.
And disable them or enable them as needed.
All right.
That is all I wanted to teach you about to break points.
I will see you in the next break point session.